# PyBer_Analysis
## Analysis Overview
The purpose of this analysis is to understand the relative relationship between drivers, riders and fares for their respective city type divided by groups of urban, suburban and rural city types. Undestanding this relationship will allow us to showcase the differences in transactions and numbers of interations that take place between different riders in the different city types. Understanding these relationships will allow PyBer to improve the ride sharing service access to more riders and determine the affordability of underserved neighborhoods.

## Results
## Fares
When looking at the overall accessibility of ride sharing services and affordability, the first analysis would be the number of rides that are used by riders for the fare paid for each type of city.

In the image below, we can see that the number of rides and average cost of the rides are negatively correlated. This means that, as the average fare of rides increase the number of rides demanded will decrease.  The number of rides increasing can be seen by the size of each post for the number of rides to average cost of the fare that land on that point. Since the figure represents each city type with different colors, with urban as orange, suburban as blue and rural as yellow, it is clear that the demand of rides for urban cities are much greater and cost is signficantly lower than that of rural or suburban cities.

[Ride Sharing Data by Fare and City Type](Resources/Fig2\1.PNG)

However, to truly understand if the fare cost is a determinant of demand of rides, we need to see what proportions of the rides are demanded from different city types and the proportion of drivers are available by city type.

[Proportion of Riders by City Type](Resources/Fig6.PNG)
[Proportion of Drivers by City Type](Resources/Fig7.PNG)

From these two pie graphs, we can see that the proportions are much greater for urban cities holding 80.9.7% and 68.4% of drivers and rides respectively. Due to the greater supply of drivers the costs of fares could be driven down and the decrease in possible fares from the number of drivers would in turn increase the number of rides for urban cities. On the other hand for suburban or rural cities the supply drivers would be lower due to lesser density of people who can be drivers and therefore won't have as great as an impact to drive down costs, which in turn would decrease the number of rides for these two cities.

Using this information above, we can see the proportion of fares driven by urban cities are far greater than that of the suburban and rural cities. The urban cities hold 62.7% of the fares which is great than 50% of the share when compared to the fares of suburban and rural cities.

[Proportion of Fares by City Type](Resources/Fig5.png)

### Riders
One of the first things that need to be understood about the city is the number of riders that need to be serviced in the given city type. Since it is understood that urban cities are more metropolis and densely populated we can assume the ride count will be significantly higher than that of the rural cities that are less densely populated.

From the figure shown below, it can been seen that the rural cities upper range has almost 2 times less riders than the lowest quartile range of the urban city ride counts. This can correlate with the density of the population and the need of ride sharing services in the area or it could be an indicator that due to rural area being less dense there are less people to be drivers, leading to lower supply of drivers with a lower supply of riders, which would drive the average fare higher. In later analysis of drivers and fare costs we can see that this could be the case and PyBer must address issues in accesbilty of ride sharing services across all city types.

[Ride Count Data by City](Resources/Fig2.PNG)

### Drivers
Based on the previous analysis of riders we can look at the availability of drivers in the area to see if the supply of drivers has an impact of how many riders use the ride sharing service.

[Driver Count Data by City](Resources/Fig4.PNG)

From the figure shown above, it is quite clear that the number of drivers in Urban cities far outnumber the number of drivers for rural cities, which would indicate that lower supply due to less people available to service the area could be a driver for higher fares.


### Revenue
Due to the higher fares, we can see from this graph that the revenues generated by urban cities in comparison to rural cities is almost 3-5 times higher on a weekly breakdown for January 2019 - April 2019. This large difference is an indication of dispartiy in ride share service accesbility based on city type. One reason this gap could be present, could be due to sheer fact that there is less supply and demand of drivers and riders for the suburban and rural cities in comparison to urban cities. Or, it could be a matter or fares being higher due to distance.

## Summary
### Business Suggestion One
One reason that revenue is lower in rural areas is the possible cost of distance as mnentioned above. For exmaple the distance between point A and B in an urban area would be signficanly less due to the density of the area where more things are closer together and rides would be shorter as opposed to rural areas where things are more spread out and it would entail longer ride times and distances. One way to address this disparity would be to lower the distance or time rate for rural areas, to encourage more riders to use the ride sharing services

### Business Suggestion Two
Another reason there could be lower number of riders or drivers in rural areas is due to the sheer supply of people will to driver or use the ride sharing services. It is hard to dertermin whether it is the low supply of drivers bringing up fares or the high cost of fares eliminationg riders resulting in low revenue , one way to understand if this is the issue is to provide incentives to drivers to increase the supply of drivers to less populated areas. In theor the higher supply of drivers should lower the fare costs and increase the ride counts.

#### Business Suggestion Three
Related to the suggestion above, there could be an incentive given to riders in less populated areas to incrase the demand of rides, leading to an increase of drivers and therefore driving the fare costs down. By having this synergy effect, it could make ride sharing services more accessible to more people.

